The biggest question I get from aspiring and current freelancers is where do you find clients.
And how did you get your first few clients.
This section is dedicated in reviewing all available options and finding clients both online and off.
I'll be following this downloadable guide throughout this section so make sure you downloaded to have
a full list and description of all the online and offline platforms.
I'll be talking about throughout the next few lessons.
A lot of students place their well-made personal portfolios profiles written biographies on all these
online freelancer platforms like people per hour dot.com or up workshop and they're pretty discouraged
by the lack of action.
Dust balls roll across the desert and discipline runs high.
The lack of clients contacting them for work can make them feel like they did something wrong.
Like their portfolio was not good enough for their pricing was too high.
And I want to be honest before the section starts and say that finding clients online is hard.
It is not because of a lack of talent on their part but an oversaturation not only of people wanting
to be freelancers in this new freelance gig economy but also the high competition on each one of these
Web sites.
It is not impossible to do very well online.
There are freelancers making a good living off of just working on these online freelancer platforms
but it's not going to be for everybody.
We'll be creating an up work profile together in detail later on in the section and I wanted to make
sure expectations are set before we do so.
I still recommend trying all sorts of different methods for finding clients both online and off.
But we'll need to do as much as we can to put ourselves on the top of the stack.
By having that killer portfolio profile bio headshot and being able to set the right pricing for ourselves
and speaking of pricing we'll learn a lot about that in the next section of the course.
While finding clients is the hardest part of starting a freelance business.
The good news is after you're finding those first few clients future clients are not as hard to grab
as referrals start to takeover and you have established yourself with social proof like reviews and
client testimonials.
My first year freelancing was mostly continuing to locate new work while my last 13 years were spent
actually doing the client work with little time needed to go out and find new clients.
This is the referral system and all of its glory.
Realistically you may want to spend your first month freelancing locating and finding your first two
clients.
Once those clients are obtained and you've completed their work with excellence there's a good chance
they could refer you to another client but only if they're more than satisfied with your work.
That is why those first few clients get the most dedication for me as they could be worth more than
the money they pay for you.
For that project they can also give you additional client referrals let's say.
CLIENT 1 never refer easy to anybody else but client 2 does you complete work for the second client's
referral and that referral gives you another referral.
You can start to see this web of relationships that start to develop as your name gets passed around
to different contacts.
There are two types of clients long term steady clients that give you constant work each month week
or day and short term clients that have a one time project.
Long term clients that give you steady work are the most valuable clients around.
Sometimes it's even worth charging a little less for those clients just establish that longer term relationship
overtaking a lot of short term projects that pay more.
It only takes several long term steady clients to fill up your weekly work schedule which is of course
a good thing of finding clients is a huge chore for you.
So take heart.
This is the hardest aspect of freelancing and it will not be your main task forever.
Doing great work with the first few clients can pay huge dividends for your future freelancing career.
Once you build up a nice combination of long term clients and a few short term clients continuing to
get that referral system going you could see all finding clients will be just a temporary battle.
Now let's review all of the different ways we could start finding clients.
As mentioned above all those some platforms and methods may be more difficult to find clients.
I do recommend trying out as many avenues as you can and finding those first new clients as anyone this
really is going to get our business going.